# SCARS Bootstrap Theme

This theme was forked from [Bootswatch](https://bootswatch.com) (Copyright 2014-2018 Thomas Park) with major modifications. Essentially it is a base Bootstrap stylesheet overlaid with custom styles, along with a Gruntfile that concatenates and minifies the overlaid styles into a single custom Bootstrap stylesheet that can be swapped in in place of the stock Bootstrap one.

## Usage

There are a few different ways you can integrate this theme into your project.

### Via Pre-compiled Asset

Replace the default Bootstrap stylesheet with `docs/theme/bootstrap.min.css`. You must still include Bootstrap's JavaScript file to have functional dropdowns, modals, etc.

Note that the above file is generated by grunt from the source code in `src`.

### Via Sass Imports

If you're using [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) (SCSS) in your project, you can
import the `_variables.scss` and `_theme.scss` files for a given theme.
This method allows you to override theme variables.

```scss
// Your variable overrides go here, e.g.:
// $h1-font-size: 3rem;

@import "~bootstrap-theme/src/variables";
@import "~bootstrap-theme/scss/bootstrap";
@import "~bootstrap-theme/src/theme";
```

Make sure to import Bootstrap's `bootstrap.scss` in between `_variables.scss`
and `_theme.scss`!

### Via Ruby Gem

Add the following to your Gemfile and run `bundle install`:

```ruby
gem 'bootstrap-theme', github: 'medusa-project/bootstrap-theme'
```

The theme directory is then accessible via the path
`Gem.loaded_specs['bootstrap-theme'].load_paths.first`.

Ruby on Rails users can add the following to an initializer (e.g.
`config/initializers/bootstrap-theme.rb`):

```ruby
Rails.application.config.assets.paths += Gem.loaded_specs['bootstrap-theme'].load_paths
```

And thus be able to import themes via Sass like so:

```scss
@import "bootstrap-theme/variables";
@import "~bootstrap/scss/bootstrap";
@import "bootstrap-theme/theme";
```

## Development

The theme consists of two SASS files:

* `_variables.scss`, which is included by default in Bootstrap, allows you to customize the settings.
* `_theme.scss` contains more extensive structural changes.

To modify the theme (requires Node.js):

1. Clone it
2. Install dependencies: `npm install`
3. Make sure you have `grunt` available on the command line. You can install `grunt-cli` as described on the [Grunt Getting Started](https://gruntjs.com/getting-started) page.
4. In `/src`, modify `_variables.scss` and `_theme.scss`.
5. Type `grunt swatch` to build the theme CSS.

You can run `grunt` to start a server, watch for any changes to the SASS files, and automatically build a theme and reload it on change. Or, run `grunt server` for just the server, and `grunt watch` for just the watcher.
